# A methodology of User Interface design

## Task Analysis

Constructing User interfases based on the actions the user need to do or "studying the competitors" is rather a naive approach to the actual study of User Interface Design, resulting in inconsisten UIs.

Rather than listing what the user *should* do, **task analysis** involves more complex concepts: who the users are, what are their goals in performing the task, what information they use in performing it, what information they generate, and what methods they employ.

## The Three components of user Interface

Its important to have a good task analysis, so we can contruct a new task environment and make sure we can acomplish the same goal with a different set of objects. To generate a new task description (or environment), we need these tree components:

1. **The user's conceptual model**: is crucial to enabling the user to anticipate the behavior of the system. The choice of abstractions determines the actual data structures and procedures used to perform tasks in the program. If we endup with wrong abstractions, the user will find the system both inconsistent and incomprehensible.
2. **The command language**: a set of phisical actions to perform the conceptual actions defined in the user's model.
3. **The information display**: its the result of the phisical actions teh user performs. these are important to show the user the actions its performing are the ones he/she wants, avoiding taking future wrong actions. We can deivide the information display into to sets: **Intrinsic objects** (essential to the application) and **control objects** (menus and windows)

## The Design process

This rather than a step-by-step process, the designer must iterate and got back and forth in order to encounter insights in later phases. Here's a proposed order of steps to follow:

1. **Task Analysis**: defines the *current task* as performed before the computer system is introduced.
  
  - Definitions are given, with al the terms and components to define them.
  - First level tasks are identified: Typically should define all the portions of the task per type of person/domain.
  - Define all the different entites involved:
    - Agents: entity involved (person, persons, machines...)
    - Goals: the outcome of defined task
    - Inputs: items of information required to perform the task
    - Outputs: items of information generated by performing the task
    - Methods: procedures employed to get the task done. it can define a series of *subtasks* which are define recursively, until is sufficiently detailed.

2. **The User's model**: consist on a set of abstract objects that behave consistently when actions are perfomed on them. the suggested guideline for user's model design is:
  - **Completeness**: all concepts or set of concepts should be explained throughly and convincingly
  - **Consistency**: both the behavior and the actions should have consistent effects in whatever context.
  - **user of Concrete objects**:

3. **The new task environment**: is the foundation in which the detailed command language design is based. For this new environment a complete list of objects and actions should be provided, and a list ot tasks and subtasks that provides a basis for command language design

4. **Information display**: we can divide Information display into three topics:
  - **Data Presentation**: In order to help users take the right next action, the state in which data is presented should be as accurate and faithful to the current data stored. We should strive to represent data as concrete as possible (the more concrete are the user's model objects the easiest), but sometimes this is not possible, so the designer must find ways to represent data as accurate as possible.
  - **Feedback**: it relates more to actions rather to objects. its also very close related to the actual commands of the command language.
  - **Control information display**: 

5. **The command language**: Describes user's input and output in a detailed way. 

