# Lightning Pool Is Open for Business: Lease Liquidity, Earn Returns, Stack Sats

- #adventOfWriting [[Lightning]] [[mintter]] #mintter [[2020-12-02]]
- [source](https://lightning.engineering/posts/2020-11-02-lightning-pool/)

## Summary

## Highlights

- Lightning Pool: a non-custodial, peer-to-peer marketplace for Lightning node operators to buy and sell channels.
- released in November 2nd 2020
- Lightning Pool makes it easier to instantly accept Lightning payments, and opens up the new possibility of earning a yield on bitcoin by selling access to liquidity on Lightning.
- When node operators can more efficiently deploy their capital it improves the network as a whole, making it more reliable and resilient for everyone.
- Go client & gRPC + REST APIs
- Since lnd’s mainnet launch in 2018, we’ve heard about the pain points developers and node operators on Lightning were experiencing. The most important of these is that inbound liquidity is a scarce resource that takes time and skill to efficiently allocate.
- The most scalable way to meet this demand is a deep, two-sided marketplace for buyers and sellers. Lightning Pool is just that.
- Using Pool, node operators can now be paid for opening up new channels and providing inbound liquidity. This opens the door to **new sources of revenue for leasing out liquidity and deploying capital on Lightning**.
- Pool solves this problem with pricing signals, bringing nodes out of the dark by showing when and where the market is demanding liquidity.
- With today’s mainnet alpha release, Lightning Pool is now open to any user running an active routing node. To ensure a good experience, the alpha version by default matches liquidity purchasers only with well-connected nodes as measured by our Bos Score rating system.
- [Whitepaper](https://lightning.engineering/lightning-pool-whitepaper.pdf)

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[mintter]: mintter "Mintter"
[2020-12-02]: journal/2020-12-02 "2020-12-02"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
