# how we iterate and collaborate with creators at egghead

- [[2020-12-07]] [[advent-of-writing]] #egghead #business #entrepeneur
- [source](https://joelhooks.com/collaborate)

## Summary

## Highlights

- We serve both instructors and learners as clients. Both of these groups of folks have different needs and desired outcomes, which layers complexity and lends itself into a slow slide towards entropy.
- but what I absolutely love about what Wes does is that all of his courses are very high quality, unique experiences. They aren't cookie-cutter. They have a bespoke feel and deliver a high quality effective learning experience.
- As a business, we at egghead want to make nice things that help people achieve their goals in life.
- We want to help software developers climb the engineering ladder.
- And beyond the technical skills that you need, egghead as a platform enables web developers to teach everything they know with a trusted production partner that has their back and takes care of the 1000s of details like a good platform should.
- This is the kind of home run success (Kent's Epic React product) that people notice, and makes people think "oh ya, I want some of that!"
- So how do we get there with individuals and take our collaboration to the next level of partnership?

### Course Collaboration Levels

- **The Basic Course**: high-quality, but relativelty low collaboration effort primarily driven by the content creator in the spirit of JFDI.
- **The Utility Course**: A high quality course with moderate collaboration. will usually have a simple high-quality illustration, copywriting, and some marketing hype.
- **The Feature Course**: A very high quality course with full instructional design collaboration, visual design, and extras. This is a "must watch" course for a particular topic. Will have a budget, schedule, supporting materials, marketing and the full attention of our production staff.
- **The Epic Course**: This is a cornerstone of the egghead catalog. Take a feature level course and then get **ambitious as fuck**
- **The Partner Course**: A true WBaaS experience. We are limited only by our imaginations. Usually if we are at the partner level we will have a handful of courses at the other levels that got us to this point!

## Resources

- [JDFI](https://joelhooks.com/jfdi)

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[2020-12-07]: journal/2020-12-07 "2020-12-07"
[advent-of-writing]: advent-of-writing "Advent of Writing"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
